https://forum.boardgamearena.com/viewtopic.php?t=5252

How to play with the AI
The AI player in our game will be designed using a set of conventions currently in use by many online hanabi communities, specifically referencing the link above. In order to maximize results when playing with the AI, it is recommended that the table adapt their playstyle to it. Our AI will adopt the following conventions:

1. Play Left, Discard Right - The leftmost card in a player’s hand is assumed to be the next card they will play (without any other information) the rightmost is assumed to be the next card they will discard. 

2. Knowing It All - When both pieces of info are given on a card in their hand so its colour and number are known, they will hold that card until it has either been played by another player (they will then discard it) or until they can play it themselves and they know it will be accepted.

3. Game Start Assumption - At the very beginning of the game, before all firework stacks have been established with their base one, the AI will assume any one cards they are clued on are playable, unless they also know the colour, then they will follow convention 2. 

4. The Good Touch Principle - When only one piece of info is given on a card in their hand they assume it will be playable on their turn. For example, if they are clued a three card and there is a three playable on any of the firework stacks, they will play that three. If there are two threes clued at the same time in their hand, they will play the leftmost (an example of convention 1). If there are no stacks that would accept a three the card is held until it can be played or until a second piece of info is given, at which point the decision making will follow convention 2.
- If it is colour info given instead of number info, the card will be played no matter what, and again in the case of multiple cards being clued they will play the leftmost first.
- The exception to this convention is five cards. If a five card is clued, the AI will hold it until its colour is also known, then follow convention 2.

5. Using Finesse - A finesse is a situation where info is given to a player later in the turn order (typically skipping one player) to cause two cards to be played at the cost of one information token. The idea is that if a player is clued on a card that everyone else can see is not playable, and it was also clearly not meant to cause the player to save the card, the remaining conclusion is that some player in between the one giving the clue and the clued player must have the card needed to make that card playable. Our AI will not have the ability to give clues to set up finesse situations or to infer that it has a playable card not clued in its hand, but it can be used as the clue receiver in a finesse. 
Example: Jim (a human, first in turn order) sees that Pam (also a human, next in turn order) has a playable red three, but he can also see that Recyclops (an AI, last in turn order) has a red four. Jim can clue Recyclops about the red four, and because Recyclops is an AI it will follow convention 4. Pam can then infer that she must have the red three. Ideally she will have some information about that three already, but it is up to the table to decide how human players communicate and make those decisions.

6. Giving Clues - The AI will only be able to give clues on cards they know are playable, or cards they know must be saved, like fives. If an information token is available, they will look for playable cards and cards to save, then decide the best clue to give. 

7. Discard Often - The AI will discard cards regularly. They will discard cards with no information on them. They will also discard cards with information when the card has already been played, and when they have no choice but to discard. They will be logical about which card to discard in such cases.

